adds python testing sections (#1887)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/python/how-to-listen-to-heartbeats-in-python.md

---
id: how-to-listen-to-heartbeats-in-python
title: How to heartbeat an Activity in a test in Python
sidebar_label: Heartbeat an Activity in a test
description: To listen to a Heartbeat in a test, use the on_heartbeat property.
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - python
  - testing
---

> To test a Heartbeat in an Activity, you can use the `on_heartbeat()` property of the `ActivityEnvironment` class. This property allows you to set a custom function that will be called every time the `activity.heartbeat()` function is called within the Activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test a Heartbeat in an Activity, use the `on_heartbeat()` property of the `ActivityEnvironment` class. This property sets a custom function that will be called every time `activity.heartbeat()` is called within the Activity.
```

> To test a Heartbeat in an Activity, use the [`on_heartbeat()`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.testing.ActivityEnvironment.html#on_heartbeat) property of the [`ActivityEnvironment`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.testing.ActivityEnvironment.html) class. This property sets a custom function that will be called every time the `activity.heartbeat()` function is called within the Activity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test a Heartbeat in an Activity, use the [`on_heartbeat()`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.testing.ActivityEnvironment.html#on_heartbeat) property of the [`ActivityEnvironment`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.testing.ActivityEnvironment.html) class.
This property sets a custom function that is called every time the `activity.heartbeat()` function is called within the Activity.
```

```python
@activity.defn
async def activity_with_heartbeats(param: str):

>     activity.heartbeat(f"param: {param}")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    activity.heartbeat("param: {param}")
```
Is the `f` in the argument some weird Python casting? A stray character? Missing an `=`? Inquiring minds 'nd whatnot...

Reviewer 2: TIL something. Been a while since I coded in Python, obvs.

    activity.heartbeat("second heartbeat")

env = ActivityEnvironment()
heartbeats = []

> # Set the `on_heartbeat` property to a callback function that will be called for each heartbeat sent by the activity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Set the `on_heartbeat` property to a callback function that will be called for each Heartbeat sent by the Activity.
```

env.on_heartbeat = lambda *args: heartbeats.append(args[0])

> # Use the run method to start the activity, passing in the function that contains the heartbeats and any necessary parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use the run method to start the activity, passing in the function that contains the Heartbeats and any necessary parameters.
```

await env.run(activity_with_heartbeats, "test")

> # Verify that the expected heartbeats are received by the callback function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Verify that the expected Heartbeats are received by the callback function.
```

---
id: how-to-listen-to-heartbeats-in-python
title: How to heartbeat an Activity in a test in Python
sidebar_label: Heartbeat an Activity in a test
description: To listen to a Heartbeat in a test, use the on_heartbeat property.
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - python
  - testing
---

To test a Heartbeat in an Activity, use the [`on_heartbeat()`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.testing.ActivityEnvironment.html#on_heartbeat) property of the [`ActivityEnvironment`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.testing.ActivityEnvironment.html) class.
This property sets a custom function that is called every time the `activity.heartbeat()` function is called within the Activity.

```python
@activity.defn
async def activity_with_heartbeats(param: str):
    activity.heartbeat(f"param: {param}")
    activity.heartbeat("second heartbeat")

env = ActivityEnvironment()
heartbeats = []
# Set the `on_heartbeat` property to a callback function that will be called for each Heartbeat sent by the Activity.
env.on_heartbeat = lambda *args: heartbeats.append(args[0])

> # Use the run method to start the activity, passing in the function that contains the Heartbeats and any necessary parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use the run method to start the Activity, passing in the function that contains the Heartbeats and any necessary parameters.
```
Oops. I missed this one during my previous review. Mea culpa. ("I done boo-booed.")
